# Migrating to libp2p@46 <!-- omit in toc -->

A migration guide for refactoring your application code from libp2p v__ to v__.

## Table of Contents <!-- omit in toc -->

- [Graceful stream closing](#graceful-stream-closing)
- [Stream/Connection stat properties](#streamconnection-stat-properties)
- [Interface module consolidation](#interface-module-consolidation)

## Graceful stream closing

Streams can either be closed gracefully, where we wait for any unsent data to be sent, or aborted in which case any unsent data is discarded and a reset message is sent, notifying the remote of the abnormal termination.

To close a stream gracefully we call the `.close` method (or `.closeRead`/`.closeWrite` for when we want half-closed streams). To abort a stream we call `.abort` and pass an error object.

In previous versions the `.close` method was synchronous which meant it could not wait for existing data to be sent which made nodes behave unpredictably.

From `0.46.x` the `.close`/`.closeRead`/`.closeWrite` methods on the Stream interface are now asynchronous.  `.abort` is a synchronous method that accepts an Error object.

Similarly the Connection interface now has asynchronous `.close` and synchronous `.abort` methods.

The `.reset` method has been removed from the Stream interface as it is only to be invoked internally by stream multiplexers when a remote stream reset has occurred.

**Before**

```js
const stream = await libp2p.dialProtocol(multiaddr, '/my-protocol/1.0.0')

// send some data
await stream.sink([data])

// close the stream - previously this may not have waited for the data to be sent
stream.close()

// alternatively cause the stream to error on the remote
stream.abort(new Error('Oh no!'))
```

**After**

```js
const stream = await libp2p.dialProtocol(multiaddr, '/my-protocol/1.0.0')

// send some data
await stream.sink([data])

// close the stream - this method is now async
await stream.close()

// alternatively cause the stream to error on the remote
stream.abort(new Error('Oh no!'))
```

## Stream/Connection stat properties

The properties on the `stream.stat` and `connection.stat` objects are now stored on the stream/connection itself.

**Before**

```js
// stream.stat properties
console.info(stream.stat.direction)
console.info(stream.stat.timeline)
console.info(stream.stat.protocol)

// connection.stat properties
console.info(connection.stat.direction)
console.info(connection.stat.timeline)
console.info(connection.stat.multiplexer)
console.info(connection.stat.encryption)
console.info(connection.stat.status)
```

**After**

```js
// stream.stat properties
console.info(stream.direction)
console.info(stream.timeline)
console.info(stream.protocol)

// connection.stat properties
console.info(connection.direction)
console.info(connection.timeline)
console.info(connection.multiplexer)
console.info(connection.encryption)
console.info(connection.status)
```

## Interface module consolidation

In an effort to prevent breaking changes affecting unrelated modules, libp2p prior to 0.46.x had a large number of single-issue interface modules for internal and external types - `@libp2p/address-manager`, `@libp2p/connection-gater`, `@libp2p/connection-manager` and so on.

This meant that although we could release a new version of the address manager interface without impacting modules that only depended on the connection manager, releasing any change became a multiple-step process during which there was a time window sometimes lasting several days when the latest versions of modules would be incompatible with each other.

Adding new methods and types to interfaces also became a breaking change since the existing released implementations of those interfaces would not implement the new methods which complicated matters further.

Since [libp2p/js-libp2p#1792](https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p/pull/1792) converted libp2p into a monorepo project, a lot of these problems have gone away since we can now release multiple libp2p modules simultaneously.

The urgency that required multiple interface modules has also subsided somewhat so now all libp2p interfaces are collected into two modules - `@lib2p2p/interface` for public-facing APIs and `@libp2p/interface-internal` for APIs designed to be consumed by libp2p components.

**Before**

```js
import type { Libp2p } from '@libp2p/interface-libp2p'
import type { AddressManager } from '@libp2p/interface-address-manager'
import type { ConnectionManager } from '@libp2p/interface-connection-manager'
// etc
```

**After**

```js
import type { Libp2p } from '@libp2p/interface'
import type { AddressManager } from '@libp2p/interface-internal/address-manager'
import type { ConnectionManager } from '@libp2p/interface-internal/connection-manager'
// etc
```
