examples/fetch-file-from-kubo/README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://js.ipfs.io" title="JS IPFS">
    <img src="https://ipfs.io/ipfs/Qme6KJdKcp85TYbLxuLV7oQzMiLremD7HMoXLZEmgo6Rnh/js-ipfs-sticker.png" alt="IPFS in JavaScript logo" width="244" />
  </a>
</p>

<h3 align="center"><b>js-libp2p with WebTransport</b></h3>

<p align="center">
  <b><i>js-libp2p using WebTransport!</i></b>
  <br />
  <br />
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jlord/forkngo/gh-pages/badges/cobalt.png" width="200">
  <br>
  <a href="https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/tree/master/docs">Explore the docs</a>
  ·
  <a href="https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p-webtransport/issues">Report Bug</a>
  ·
  <a href="https://github.com/ipfs-examples/js-ipfs-examples/issues">Request Feature/Example</a>
</p>

## Table of Contents <!-- omit in toc -->

- [About The Project](#about-the-project)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Installation and Running example](#installation-and-running-example)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [References](#references)
- [Documentation](#documentation)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [Want to hack on IPFS?](#want-to-hack-on-ipfs)

## About The Project

- Read the [docs](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/tree/master/docs)
- Look into other [examples](https://github.com/ipfs-examples/js-ipfs-examples) to learn how to spawn an IPFS node in Node.js and in the Browser
- Consult the [Core API docs](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/tree/master/docs/core-api) to see what you can do with an IPFS node
- Visit https://dweb-primer.ipfs.io to learn about IPFS and the concepts that underpin it
- Head over to https://proto.school to take interactive tutorials that cover core IPFS APIs
- Check out https://docs.ipfs.io for tips, how-tos and more
- See https://blog.ipfs.io for news and more
- Need help? Please ask 'How do I?' questions on https://discuss.ipfs.io

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

Make sure you have installed all of the following prerequisites on your development machine:

- Git - [Download & Install Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads). OSX and Linux machines typically have this already installed.
- Node.js - [Download & Install Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) and the npm package manager.

### Installation and Running example

```console
> npm install
> npm start
```

Now open your browser at `http://localhost:8888`

## Usage

In this example, you will find a boilerplate you can use to guide yourself into bundling js-ipfs with [browserify](http://browserify.org/), so that you can use it in your own web app!

You should see the following:

![](./img/img1.png)
![](./img/img2.png)

This example demonstrates the `Regular API`, top-level API for add, cat, get and ls Files on IPFS

_For more examples, please refer to the [Documentation](#documentation)_

## References

- Documentation:
  - [IPFS CONFIG](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/blob/master/docs/CONFIG.md)
  - [MISCELLANEOUS](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/blob/master/docs/core-api/MISCELLANEOUS.md)
  - [FILES](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/blob/master/docs/core-api/FILES.md)
- Tutorials:
  - [MFS API](https://proto.school/mutable-file-system)
  - [Regular File API](https://proto.school/regular-files-api)

## Documentation

- [Config](https://docs.ipfs.io/)
- [Core API](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/tree/master/docs/core-api)
- [Examples](https://github.com/ipfs-examples/js-ipfs-examples)
- [Development](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/blob/master/docs/DEVELOPMENT.md)
- [Tutorials](https://proto.school)

## Contributing

Contributions are what make the open source community such an amazing place to be learn, inspire, and create. Any contributions you make are **greatly appreciated**.

1. Fork the IPFS Project
2. Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your Changes (`git commit -a -m 'feat: add some amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## Want to hack on IPFS?

[![](https://cdn.rawgit.com/jbenet/contribute-ipfs-gif/master/img/contribute.gif)](https://github.com/ipfs/community/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

The IPFS implementation in JavaScript needs your help! There are a few things you can do right now to help out:

Read the [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/ipfs/community/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md) and [JavaScript Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/ipfs/community/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING_JS.md).

- **Check out existing issues** The [issue list](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/issues) has many that are marked as ['help wanted'](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-desc+label%3A%22help+wanted%22) or ['difficulty:easy'](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-desc+label%3Adifficulty%3Aeasy) which make great starting points for development, many of which can be tackled with no prior IPFS knowledge
- **Look at the [IPFS Roadmap](https://github.com/ipfs/roadmap)** This are the high priority items being worked on right now
- **Perform code reviews** More eyes will help
  a. speed the project along
  b. ensure quality, and
  c. reduce possible future bugs.
- **Add tests**. There can never be enough tests.
- **Join the [Weekly Core Implementations Call](https://github.com/ipfs/team-mgmt/issues/992)** it's where everyone discusses what's going on with IPFS and what's next

Commit message:

docs(example): add helper instructions for running example (#56)
Co-authored-by: Alex Potsides <alex@achingbrain.net>

examples/fetch-file-from-kubo/README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://js.ipfs.io" title="JS IPFS">
    <img src="https://ipfs.io/ipfs/Qme6KJdKcp85TYbLxuLV7oQzMiLremD7HMoXLZEmgo6Rnh/js-ipfs-sticker.png" alt="IPFS in JavaScript logo" width="244" />
  </a>
</p>

<h3 align="center"><b>js-libp2p with WebTransport</b></h3>

<p align="center">
  <b><i>js-libp2p using WebTransport!</i></b>
  <br />
  <br />
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jlord/forkngo/gh-pages/badges/cobalt.png" width="200">
  <br>
  <a href="https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/tree/master/docs">Explore the docs</a>
  ·
  <a href="https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p-webtransport/issues">Report Bug</a>
  ·
  <a href="https://github.com/ipfs-examples/js-ipfs-examples/issues">Request Feature/Example</a>
</p>

## Table of Contents <!-- omit in toc -->

- [About The Project](#about-the-project)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Installation and Running example](#installation-and-running-example)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [References](#references)
- [Documentation](#documentation)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [Want to hack on IPFS?](#want-to-hack-on-ipfs)

## About The Project

- Read the [docs](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/tree/master/docs)
- Look into other [examples](https://github.com/ipfs-examples/js-ipfs-examples) to learn how to spawn an IPFS node in Node.js and in the Browser
- Consult the [Core API docs](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/tree/master/docs/core-api) to see what you can do with an IPFS node
- Visit https://dweb-primer.ipfs.io to learn about IPFS and the concepts that underpin it
- Head over to https://proto.school to take interactive tutorials that cover core IPFS APIs
- Check out https://docs.ipfs.io for tips, how-tos and more
- See https://blog.ipfs.io for news and more
- Need help? Please ask 'How do I?' questions on https://discuss.ipfs.io

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

Make sure you have installed all of the following prerequisites on your development machine:

- Git - [Download & Install Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads). OSX and Linux machines typically have this already installed.
- Node.js - [Download & Install Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) and the npm package manager.

### Installation and Running example

**Pre-requisite**: Because this example is in a subfolder of @libp2p/webtransport, if you are running the example inside https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p-webtransport, you must build at the root first. If you are running the code outside of https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p-webtransport, you must run `npm install --save @libp2p/webtransport` first.

```console
> npm install
> npm start
```

Now open your browser at `http://localhost:8888`

## Usage

In this example, you will find a boilerplate you can use to guide yourself into bundling js-ipfs with [browserify](http://browserify.org/), so that you can use it in your own web app!

You should see the following:

![](./img/img1.png)
![](./img/img2.png)

This example demonstrates the `Regular API`, top-level API for add, cat, get and ls Files on IPFS

_For more examples, please refer to the [Documentation](#documentation)_

## References

- Documentation:
  - [IPFS CONFIG](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/blob/master/docs/CONFIG.md)
  - [MISCELLANEOUS](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/blob/master/docs/core-api/MISCELLANEOUS.md)
  - [FILES](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/blob/master/docs/core-api/FILES.md)
- Tutorials:
  - [MFS API](https://proto.school/mutable-file-system)
  - [Regular File API](https://proto.school/regular-files-api)

## Documentation

- [Config](https://docs.ipfs.io/)
- [Core API](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/tree/master/docs/core-api)
- [Examples](https://github.com/ipfs-examples/js-ipfs-examples)
- [Development](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/blob/master/docs/DEVELOPMENT.md)
- [Tutorials](https://proto.school)

## Contributing

Contributions are what make the open source community such an amazing place to be learn, inspire, and create. Any contributions you make are **greatly appreciated**.

1. Fork the IPFS Project
2. Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your Changes (`git commit -a -m 'feat: add some amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## Want to hack on IPFS?

[![](https://cdn.rawgit.com/jbenet/contribute-ipfs-gif/master/img/contribute.gif)](https://github.com/ipfs/community/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

The IPFS implementation in JavaScript needs your help! There are a few things you can do right now to help out:

Read the [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/ipfs/community/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md) and [JavaScript Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/ipfs/community/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING_JS.md).

- **Check out existing issues** The [issue list](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/issues) has many that are marked as ['help wanted'](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-desc+label%3A%22help+wanted%22) or ['difficulty:easy'](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-desc+label%3Adifficulty%3Aeasy) which make great starting points for development, many of which can be tackled with no prior IPFS knowledge
- **Look at the [IPFS Roadmap](https://github.com/ipfs/roadmap)** This are the high priority items being worked on right now
- **Perform code reviews** More eyes will help
  a. speed the project along
  b. ensure quality, and
  c. reduce possible future bugs.
- **Add tests**. There can never be enough tests.
- **Join the [Weekly Core Implementations Call](https://github.com/ipfs/team-mgmt/issues/992)** it's where everyone discusses what's going on with IPFS and what's next
